(1)The following transformations have been made to the original data 
set which has been downloaded from the Coibion et al. (2024) replication files. 

1. Initial Data Preparation
Loaded survey data spanning multiple waves (7–16) with multiple variables 
per household (hid).
Some variables were only recorded in certain waves, leading to missing values.
Dataset was originally in .dta (Stata) format and converted to .csv for Python/Excel.
Reasoning: Do not have access to stata, can work with .csv in python and excel

2. Handling Missing Values and Wave-Specific Variables
Created wave-specific variables for variables collected in multiple waves.
Example:
cons_tot_wave10
cons_tot_wave11
Removed entirely blank columns (variables not collected in a given wave).
Collapsed data by household ID (hid) where appropriate.
For constant variables across waves (e.g., male, age), kept only one column.
For wave-specific variables, kept all wave columns distinct.
Reasoning: Able to collapse many observations onto 
one by merging observations 
with the same household id. Also able to remove blank cells
due to a certain variable not being recorded in a certain 
wave. Only created wave specific variables 
for variables which could vary over waves.

3. Filling Missing Values
Back-filled and forward-filled missing values within 
each household (hid) where applicable.
Ensured that if a household answered a question in one wave 
but not in another, the known value was propagated to fill missing entries.
Dropped rows with excessive missing data that could not be reasonably filled.
Reasoning: FIlled in missing responses with closest possible 
response (accurate compromise)
Dropped observation with too many missing cells - too much 
approximation compromises accuracy

4. Encoding Boolean and Yes/No Variables
Converted all categorical binary responses:
TRUE → 1
FALSE → 0
Yes → 1
No → 0
Ensured all remaining categorical variables were 
converted into dummy variables (one-hot encoding):
Format: <variable>_wave<wave#>_<category>
Example:
q2021_wave8_Working full-time (self-employed)
Reasoning: Turning strings into numerical values fit for empirical analysis

5. Dropping Unusable Observations
Removed rows with any remaining missing values
(to ensure a complete dataset for analysis).

6. Variable Renaming and Labeling
Applied a mapping of base variable names → descriptive 
variable names (from your CES Data Excel mapping file).
Example:
q2021 → Employment Status
pr2010 → Recruitment Type
sh_sav_wave9 - LiquidAssets
For wave-specific categorical dummy variables, replaced 
only the base variable part with the descriptive name 
while keeping the wave and category suffix:
"q2021_wave8_Working full-time (self-employed)" 
Employment Status-wave8-Working full-time (self-employed)
\\ For constant variables, fully replaced with descriptive names.
All transformations were applied to create a second row in the CSV:
Row 1: original variable names (for reference)
Row 2: descriptive variable names (for readability in Excel)
Reasoning: Helpful for understand what variable 
represents (initial variable names are not always intuitive or explanatory) 

7. Creation of Data Subset
The majority of variables collected in this data set were dropped, 
with only the following remaining: Total Monthly Consumption 
Oct. 2020, Total Monthly Consumption Jan. 2021, Control Group, 
First Moment Treatment, Second Moment Europe Treatment, 
First and Second Moment Treatment, Second Moment Domestic 
Treatment, Europe Mean Growth Expectation Prior, Europe 
Uncertainty in Growth Expectation Prior, Log Net Household 
Income Sep. 2020, All country dummies, Household Size, 
Male, High-School Educated, Post-Secondary Educated, Age, 
Sufficient Liquidity. 
This was done as Coibion et al. (2024) involves a 
multitude of tables analyzing various aspects of their
results, the majority of which are not germane to this
specific subset of analysis. 

8. Standardization of Continuous Variables 
This transformation was done before the Lasso, Ridge and
Random forest portion of analysis, in order to account for
the fact that large continuous variables such as income 
might be improperly perceived as more important to these
models as they are distributed across a greater range. 
Standardization was implemented such that the following 
variables: Europe Mean Growth Expectation Prior, Europe 
Uncertainty in Growth Expectation Prior, Log Net Household
Income Sep. 2020 & Age had expected values of 0, and
standard deviations of 1.
